[THEME MUSIC]
>> I'm Sarah Elkhaldy, and
this is Mystery Teachings.
What if the people
who challenge us
the most are actually
the ones pushing
us to awaken our true power?
These people are often seen
as petty tyrants, individuals
who seem to exist just
to test our limits.
The term "petty tyrants" was
coined by Carlos Castaneda
in his series of books on
The Teachings of Don Juan.
Petty tyrants are the
key right of passage
within our own
spiritual awakening.
They are portals
and even vessels
that are used to attack us.
They get activated
by our own growth.
They're triggered
by it, and that
makes them go into autopilot.
And when they're in autopilot,
what's really happening
is that their ego does not
like that we are stepping out
of the norm.
We are stepping out
of the status quo.
And so they're used
to intimidate us,
and they're used to challenge us
as we're stepping into our power
so that we go back
to sleep or we
stop moving through our
spiritual awakening.
Petty tyrants show up
through our community,
through our friends and family--
any way that we can learn and
that we interact with people
on our spiritual path.
This is really a dynamic
that gets activated
by our own leveling up.
That is what's so important
to know about this
because it can really confuse
us when we're interacting
with our coworkers, or we
have friends and family
that we normally have
a lot of harmony with.
Now, a certain pettiness
gets activated within them,
and they start becoming very
much like an oppositional force
to whatever our power is
that we're stepping into
or whatever that truth
is that we have now owned
and we are now speaking.
And so this petty tyrant
dynamic can really
be looked at as the ego.
When I'm referring to the
ego, I am specifically
referring to the
individuated consciousness
that is overidentified.
So it's the part of us
that we have practiced
and we have repeated until
it's become habitual.
And when we're on
autopilot, this
is the ego in its
most unconscious form.
It's the one that
is so overidentified
that it is in the sleep
state of consciousness.
It fully believes it
is only its identity,
and it is only its patterns.
So it's any time that the
ego is operating in autopilot
or is unconscious, that now
it can be used as a vessel.
And that's what
petty tyrants are.
So it's not that these
people in our lives
always play this role for
us, but this is really
like the movie The Matrix,
where anyone inside our reality
can then be tapped into almost
like a portal for attacking
us or opposing us.
So just like an
agent in the movie
The Matrix, petty tyrants can be
plugged into through their ego
and used as a
program to attack us
if we're stepping
out of the norm
or we're awakening
outside of the matrix.
And they come into our reality
to make us go back in line,
go back asleep.
And so they act
as the moderators
of higher levels
of consciousness,
or even the gatekeepers
that we have
to face as that rite of
passage to that higher
level of consciousness.
But petty tyrants aren't always
just coworkers or friends
or even people in our community.
They could just be our
family on social media.
Because so many times when we
develop a really clear truth
or we need our truth clarified,
and the universe uses
a petty tyrant to help us create
that clarity within our truth
and create that clarity within
our new more empowering, larger
belief systems, we'll just
have family come online
and start activating and
being triggered by anything
that we find now
important and we
think is a part of
a larger worldview.
Any information that we're
now accumulating, whether it's
positive or negative about this
reality that is representing
something that is larger than
what the matrix currently
presents us is something that
will definitely activate people,
and it will usually be,
if not in person, then
through just abstract comments
on our own social media
platforms.
So this dynamic isn't
always activated just
by anyone who disagrees with
us or anyone who has discourse.
Discourse is a powerful
tool for our own evolution.
This is more specific.
The petty tyrant has a
more personal investment
and is triggered deeper
than just discourse
from our own awakening.
And that's the
difference between just
organic disagreement
versus anyone in our life
that is now playing this
role of a petty tyrant that
is trying to stop us in some
way and at some capacity
from using our own voice
and using our own throat
center to speak our truth and
to really step into our power
stronger.
And that's the real
difference between these two.
It's something that's
way more personal.
It comes with a tinge of
even karmic flavor behind it.
As much as this can feel like
a personal vendetta against us,
the most interesting thing
about the petty tyrant dynamic
is that most of the
time, the petty tyrants
don't even know
that they're playing
this role inside our
spiritual initiation,
and they don't even know
why they're triggered.
In fact, this whole dynamic
takes place the strongest
within being completely unaware
and being completely unconscious
of their own
personal motivations.
They're just reacting.
They're just responding
to our own growth
because this growth is
representing something that
challenges the status quo, and
it challenges their own ego
and society's norms at large.
Petty tyrants operate mainly
through two hypnotic cues.
And the first one is,
who do you think you are?
Who do you think you
are is the strongest
way that the petty tyrant
affects us on our own journey
and even in our energy field.
This hypnotic cue even can
shrink us and diminish our power
back into the sleep state
of consciousness, which is
the whole goal of this dynamic.
It is to shrink us
through the energy
of who do you think you are
to even step into your power.
The second hypnotic cue
that the petty tyrant
uses to diminish our
power is something way
more unique and customized
to the person who's
receiving their attack.
So this is going to be something
that triggers us personally,
that they're aware of, and they
know is either wounding for us
or they know is a
deep trigger for us.
And it's purposely designed to
keep us into the societal norms
and away from whatever
we were doing.
So this one is going to be a lot
more customized, and anything
that has to do specifically
with the topic or the beliefs
that we're stepping into.
So what is the metaphysical
goal of the petty tyrant?
It is to keep us in line.
They keep us in line so
that we do not step out
of whatever is the status quo
and whatever the matrix wants
us to believe and how the matrix
wants us to behave and act.
They are triggered by our truth
because it represents something
that doesn't keep us in line.
In fact, the petty
tyrant is simply
activated by us questioning
things even at a mental level.
So anything that has
to do with us waking up
and anything that has to
do with us specifically
questioning our
reality will then
start awakening
the matrix to us.
And that's what activates
the petty tyrant.
It's the fact that
we're questioning things
and we're not going in line.
Now, as we progress on
our own spiritual journey,
even the petty tyrant
dynamic shifts,
so they're not always going to
be playing the same exact role
in our growth, and
they won't even
be reflecting always
the same lessons
that we need to now learn.
For instance, in the
beginning of our journey,
petty tyrants play
a stronger role
with our ability
to really develop
discernment and integrity.
So if we have the integrity
to stand tall and strong
through this petty
tyrant dynamic,
now we're able to
progress into the deeper
stages of our own development.
And so, in these middle stages
of the petty tyrant dynamic,
now they evolve as we evolve.
And now what
they're really doing
is playing more of
a soundboard for us.
So what they're doing
is clarifying our truth.
How will we know
if what we believe
is true is something that
we genuinely feel and know
is true, unless it's
played back to us?
So now we're being challenged.
But the challenge is to
really purify our truth
and help us clarify
our belief systems.
Once we've progressed more
into this larger awareness
and we have more clarity around
ourselves and our journey,
now the petty tyrants
develop with us
and progress into a new stage.
So the last stage
of the petty tyrants
is the one that reflects
the most honest things
inside our energy field that
really do need to be worked on,
and we're not just
being attacked for.
They're the ones where we
genuinely need to be balanced
and things that we genuinely
have blind spots around.
The chakra that
is being activated
through the petty tyrant the
most is the throat chakra.
The throat chakra is how we
communicate with the world,
and it's our portal for our own
interior and internal truth.
That is what needs
to really get opened.
And that's something that so
many people struggle with.
And because of
that, petty tyrants
are the perfect vessel
and the perfect tool
for helping us open
our throat center
and help us speak our truth
through that oppositional force
that they play.
This is the major energy
center that the petty tyrants
go after because they're
trying to shut it down.
But at the same time, the
whole point of this dynamic
is so that it gets activated
and that we do open it
and we start to use it.
And that's the real
spiritual lesson here.
It's that, yes,
the petty tyrants
are interplaying with us.
And yes, there's so
much conflict and stress
that incurs from this
dynamic, but it's
for us to open up our throat
chakra so that we can speak
our truth no matter what the
consequences and no matter
what difference of opinion we're
experiencing with our reality.
Now, in the earlier stages of
petty tyrant dynamics, what
we're really doing
with the throat chakra
is learning how to
assert our boundaries.
Boundaries are number
one here, and once we've
got that really going,
and once we've understand
and started to
integrate how to assert
our boundaries through
the throat chakra,
through our voice,
then now it unfolds,
and it becomes where we're
learning how to use our throat
chakra to clarify our beliefs
and to speak whatever we believe
and whatever we want to share
with the world around what
is personal and more
intimate to us--
what we find to be our truth.
In later stages of this
petty tyrant dynamic,
now we may no longer need
that level of confrontation
from them.
And instead, what's happening
is that our throat chakra is now
learning how to come
into its subtle power.
And this could be sheerly
by speaking our truth
and allowing them
to be acknowledged.
So the question
becomes, how do we
deal with these petty tyrants?
Well, most of the
time, they're teaching
us boundaries through our throat
chakra and through our world.
So boundaries is going
to be the best way
that we deal with
the petty tyrants
because they're
teaching us boundaries,
and they're teaching us to
be comfortable with setting
boundaries very clear ones.
But after that lesson
has really been mastered
and it's no longer
something that we
have to keep implementing,
now, the best way
to deal with the petty tyrants
is through ignoring them,
and even sometimes if we
have to-- blocking them.
These would be the
most effective ways
once we've already
learned the lessons.
Once we've already
set the boundaries,
now it becomes more
about our mental mastery.
And if we learn how to ignore
really petty dynamics at play,
then now we're the masters
of our own reality.
So the sacred purpose that
the petty tyrant is playing
is one to help us become
comfortable with our own power,
help us step into our
power, even under pressure.
Because what is power if we're
not always embodying it even
under conflict or pressure?
And what is integrity
and strength if it is not
tested even under pressure?
So this is the
real sacred purpose
behind the petty tyrants.
It's to help us become more
comfortable with our power
under pressure.
Once we understand that
we're stepping into our power
and that we're enduring
it under pressure,
now there will not even
be fear of retaliation
once we fully opened our throat
center through their lessons,
but also our heart.
Because once we're
out of the tension
and once we're out of the fear
of stepping into our power,
now, we don't fear
their retaliation,
or we don't fear consequences.
And that allows us
to open our heart.
And this is really what becoming
unconditionally loving is about.
It's about having no conditions
and not being under any fear
of repercussions.
So our heart center is also
activated through this dynamic.
So what is the takeaway from
this petty tyrant dynamic?
It is don't wait
for others to match
your personal level of growth.
Don't wait for others to match
whatever your stepping into now
and whatever you
find to be the truth.
True spiritual power comes
from being unapologetically
and unconditionally yourself.
Spirit uses the petty
tyrant as a catalyst
so that we can be the embodiment
of our higher self at all times.
The medicine of the petty
tyrant is multifold,
but heavily revolves
around inner authority
versus external authority.
It teaches us to stop hiding.
Do not wait for others to
go first or to awaken first
or to be more conscious first
or to give us permission
to be powerful first.
They teach us to
question, why on earth
did we ever need a first?
Petty tyrants, though they
appear as adversaries,
are the mirrors that reflect
our deepest fears and unspoken
truths, urging us
to claim our power.
By embracing them
as catalysts, we
rise above ego and
external control,
stepping fully into
our authentic selves.
The real question is, can
you stand firm in your truth
and transform their resistance
into your highest potential?
[THEME MUSIC]